welcome everyone to this week's ipl
desync meeting
it's october the 19th
2020 and as every week we go
all the stuff that we've worked on on
the past week and then discuss any
action items and today we even have an
agenda item
um and yeah though we still start with
the
round of updates so um
i started myself and actually this week
i had
plenty of stuff in the ipld world to do
which is great
so um so on the documentation side um
i've made the two pull requests into um
explorations report with a small script
which does everything automatically i
had to patch it a bit but now it's quite
nice
and i think the outpost reads quite good
as a markdown
so i've done those um and on the left
side of things so
currently i still wait with the rust
multi hash release
until i'm sure that it works well with
for the
p2p forks i've done a pull request
on the p2p and i hope that they would
reply quickly
but they haven't so it's been six days
or so
so i've pinged them again on irc and
just see like if there's anything i
could do to
get this reviewed but as this also
blocks the rusty id release
what i'm gonna do is that um this week i
would just
um so there are a few changes that i
think they would need i would just
make sure that those just get merged
with the rust multihash
and if i then by the end of the week or
so
not hear back from them i would just do
a release
then do a roster do these um
and then if there's anything that they
still need there might be just another
breaking change for these so i don't
expect it but
in case they do i will just do another
release and yeah we'll figure this out
and but i don't want to be blocked on
the p2p
review um on
what else i did so there is the simple
deck stuff that
is coming up in this meeting quite a bit
and i looked into it again
because like eric was actually
mentioning like how is this different
from black sea war
and then i looked into it and decided to
make a pull request
to show that it's actually quite similar
um
yeah it's linked so yeah it's basically
what it shows is that if you really only
implement
a subset for of c board which we need
for dexy but if you only implement those
things
an encode and a decoder is actually
quite easy to do with not that much code
[Music]
and then on fridays
we on friday with a long discussion on
irc
about ipd and strings
um the point is that i think that the
ipl databall strings should be valid
utf-8
and eric thinks that um
the id strings should be just um i 8-bit
byte sequences
and he has published a document and i've
published a reply to it
and yeah i think this will be a
discussion that will be ongoing and that
yeah we will have for quite a while um
we'll see how this turns out okay that's
all i did
in the ipld world and next on my list is
danielle
cool so one of the things i did last
week is get a new microphone so
hopefully my audio is better now
but besides that it was a bit of a short
week for me because
i was giving a talk today at a go
conference called golab so i had to
record a talk for it because they
didn't do live talks um and you don't
learn
how difficult it is to do like a full
hour edited talk until you try it for
the first time so i spent a lot of hours
on that
but mostly the weekend but also a little
bit uh on monday
and then obviously the live q a today
besides that
we did a call with rod and a couple of
other people to finish up the hammed
spec changes that we had been talking
about so that went well thanks rod
so i tried to switch my adl repo
to that new schema and i
spent most of today on that and i was
stuck for a while
and initially i thought it was my fault
because when something doesn't work
you know you kind of assume that it's
your own fault but it after some digging
i kind of realized
that the spec is inconsistent because
the
new hash map node type um
sometimes it's represented as a map and
sometimes it's a tuple or list
so the schema doesn't really work and
then eric's code generator
it could give a nice error but right now
it just spits out invalid go code so
that's what was confusing me for a while
um so i think we can talk about that
later
uh rather how to fix it so otherwise
i've been
adding more tests and fixing to-do's in
the adl repo but nothing that i've
pushed so far yet
and i also filed some of the simpler go
ipld prime issues
or rather design changes that we had
been discussed
discussing with eric the more difficult
ones
i'm leaving them in the draft notes for
now because it's not anything that
those are not anything that we could fix
anytime soon so
and that's it for this week
thanks next is wrong
um okay um
so my was mostly a go week last week
um i took on board some of that go
maintenance that we talked about last
week and um the main thing i focused on
was go cid which is now fully updated
and happy
and um i increased the test coverage by
while i was at it just to because the
repo had a
coverage rule for things to be merged
and it just i think it just slipped
below that and so no the pull requests
get merged and so instead of trying to
find someone with administrative access
i decided to just increase the test
coverage because that's a good thing
anyway so
i actually managed to test some areas
that just were not like there were whole
masses of code that just were not
touched
so um it's good to to
test to touch them and to validate what
they're doing
what they're intended for um i i think
go cid might need a release but i don't
know what the process was there
so i might need to figure that and
figure out whether i can do a release
um i also think it might be good to get
daniel access to the ipfs go
team since some of these pieces are over
in the ipfs repo
and go libraries are kind of hard to
move
more tinkering with iple prime and um
i think pb thing um
touching lots of things inside our plt
prime from the inside and um
hitting some interesting places but um
mostly that's going
surprisingly well and i you know i'm not
having the pain that
i'm not having much of the pain that i
thought i might do
in trying to make it work at least so in
my initial
test runs are showing that the thing's
working as i'm
as it's supposed to be so looking good
uh we did the hemp stuff which we need
to revisit probably today we can
probably knock that off in this meeting
um at the end uh and then just
administrative stuff including the peer
review stuff
which just that's just sapping
work uh aside from that just mostly
little bits and pieces
um so
the next one is micah
oh yeah a lot of what i dealt with was
the review stuff as well
um probably have another round of that
next week
this week i actually have to write a
talk for quinn liftoff so that's going
to be fun
um so main kind of code stuff that i did
though is that i did get back to that
uh dkb that little key value store and
just started adding coverage and
tweaking it
i'm really liking it i think i'm gonna
um write a little blog post
uh probably on the ipfs blog about kind
of like how would you write a database
on top of ipfs and then just use the dkb
library as like an example basically um
that seems like a good idea
but that's uh the main stuff that
i have that i can think of right now um
interested though in in uh in rob talk
later about the ham changes
next is peter
ah right so uh last week
i assisted the people who assisted the
people who launched falcon
so we did launch valcoin uh it was
very quiet actually swishly quiet we
probably will see
some stuff this week uh you know fingers
crossed don't see anything but one never
knows
uh so one thing that is uh can i build
related and it's somewhat interesting to
this team because a lot of you guys
worked on this was
um as you might know we had
a few hiccups with how we actually
transferred the
uh data from the data that we assembled
for pokemon discovered how we
transferred it from
uh aws to actual hard drives
uh there were a number of mistakes made
along the way
uh so uh just
literally yesterday we wrapped up a
project
to ship a very small
very foolproof program that
is able to take a random drive and
basically
say whether it is good or not good for
uh the purposes to which we uh you know
whether it was assembled good enough for
the purposes that we are trying to use
it for
uh when we actually start sending deals
and stuff like that
uh so the amount of things that we had
to figure out how to do
is um because of the
hostile place where this thing is run it
doesn't really have
a good uh like back end service or
anything like that so
step number one was basically just take
the entire dynamo table from piece
like the entire thing uh
cut it down to 16 bytes
of cash for each cid instead of the full
and just bundle this thing entire
entirely into the binary which
is only like 140 megabytes so it's not
that bad so basically whoever runs
whoever runs the program has the entire
data set of what is actually a computer
to expect and what is the size of the
file to expect
which data says they're part of all of
this is like part of the part of the
thing
uh also we have um an
actual compy calculator that is not
based on uh
the rust ffi stuff but it's entirely
implementing go it is
only three times faster than what we're
using falcon right now
i haven't spoken to the crypto lab
people yet because
it is implementing efficiency it's
actually supposed to be 10-15 times
faster than ever
when everything works together and we
basically can
channel the different layers in parallel
so it can
utilize a decent cpu with your
transactions
uh so it can run things at about
500 megabytes per second one gigabyte
per second
uh in constant memory so right now
the the program actually takes about uh
50 megabytes of memory to protect some
dark car file just takes slower than i
would i would like to do
um and once that is ready hopefully
hopefully this will
be able to clean this up we will try to
push it into into waters as well
and uh yeah
that pretty much is what
what took like uh two three days of work
but it's finally out and
now we'll we'll see if multiple people
running this will be able to find extra
bucks or not
in the implementation of all her
partners too
and uh yeah i think that's all i have uh
what's next next is eric
so i don't have a tundra report this
week i had a lot of non-ipod things to
deal with in life this week
um but i guess since you brought it up
very vulgar strings
i thought a lot about strings strings
are one of those things that we really
need to specify
in some way or another unfortunately
frustratingly because despite strings
being the super common concept
common doesn't mean well specified so
if we're going to try to grow this whole
ecosystem full of like many different
implementations of libraries
many different codecs many different
applications built on top of them
interfacing with many other different
kinds of applications interfacing with
kernels interfacing with file systems
interfacing with everything under the
sun
we really have to specify what we
actually mean even by really basic stuff
like strings that we would like to take
for granted
so i tried to do that
i have a big old document it's a guest
form
there's one of those things that i've
written in the sort of
exploration report style format so it
takes a position
and it runs with it and it's written in
a single author way as if this was the
truth
so it's split into several sections
it's way longer than anyone probably
wants to read
i'm sorry it talks about where strings
appear
um it proposes a definition which
uh like volcker school did already the
definition that i would advocate for is
strings should caps lock
our fc whatever terminology should
be utf-8 however complete ipld libraries
must caps lock support
the full range of 8-bit byte sequences
the details of that are covered um it
goes a lot into the design rationale
i've got
six distinct ones separated out there or
is it seven
and then there's a whole chapter full of
alternatives and all of these are
labeled as rejected
but i want to restate that this is
because this is written in the
exploration report style so it took a
position
and it's running with it some of these
things
are more thoroughly rejected than others
but they have between two and eight
reasons
why i consider them not such a good idea
but some of these i don't know maybe
they're salvageable
if somebody wants to take this all in a
different direction what i would suggest
is
read this and
if you want to pluck one of these things
out
pick one of them and try to run with all
of the concrete implications of what we
need to change
in order to make it happen so for
example one of the things that's
rejected
is maps
with mixed key kinds because if we
supported maps with mixed key kinds
entirely then a whole bunch of the
debate about how
strings need to be specified would
actually change
it would loosen some constraints it
would add some new ones
and it's very non-local which of those
things it affects
so if somebody wants to try to take that
definition and wrong with it
that would be really cool but good luck
because just saying
no i don't want it to be rejected will
not get you very far you actually have
to work through the implications of all
these things
what i've tried i've ended up failing to
be able to work through the implications
of a lot of these
but maybe some of them are possible i
just don't have enough headspace right
one of the other alternatives that's in
here that i've marked as rejected but
maybe it shouldn't be
maybe you could do this is
we could change the data model to have
multiple map kinds
we could have map with string keys as a
distinct kind
from map with byte keys and another
distinct kind for
map within keys that would be an option
it would be radically different than
what we've defined so far and would
require updating a lot of specs
and rethinking a lot of things about how
codecs have bijections on specs
and so on but it might be coherently
possible
anyway so this stock covers a lot of
those things
um so
there was a crazy discussion that i had
with volcker today actually
um and this is like a good time to kind
of put this on your radar
we're talking about the map key thing
and within the context of strings and
we're talking about
kind of like like if you if you pull
back and
you stop thinking about like data
modeling types for a second just
what is the thing that we're trying to
ensure and the main thing that we just
care about is
is round tripping right like we just
want to make sure that we can always
round trip
all of these things between languages
to round trip you don't actually need
a consistent decision about this
for all maps or even for all languages
what you need
is a very consistent decision for each
codec
for each language and and the main
constraint that you have
is that it cannot be mixed types
right so i'd like it kind of at the same
place that you ended up where like
you can't mix the key types but we don't
actually need to specify what type the
keys
are um for instance if you
if what you do is you decide to encode
arbitrary binary
into a string uh key and a c
more which is what popcorn is doing now
that actually round trips in javascript
is fine
because javascript's map only takes
strings but those strings can
include characters so you actually can
get
a round trip out of that it's fine and
then if you know that that's what you
want to be doing if what you really want
are
are binary keys but you're typing them
to strings because like whatever
then in your codec you can say oh like
i'm in
i'm in a language that supports binary
keys it's always a binary key for maps
like that's how my that's how my codec
works i always do binary keys cool
and those actually round trip the same
data between those two languages right
because nobody is mutating it and it's
all fine you're just changing
the decision that you made in a specific
codec in a specific language
so i really i actually don't think the
data model has to define
what the type what the consistent type
is for
keys i think it actually can leave it up
to the languages and the codecs to
decide
it just has to be consistent and it has
to be one
it has to be one type um you can't have
mixed types
so that was like an interesting thing
and like i think a lot of our
string constraints tend to point back
sometimes to like well we're using them
in maps for this thing
but i think that we should maybe just
decouple that like we don't actually
need that to be the case we can just say
that like
maps have one key type and figure it out
for that codec and that
in that language and like maybe our
decision
in stag cbor which makes total sense
given the history and what people are
already doing
is that it needs to be string types but
it can just be arbitrary data and it
doesn't have to be utf-8
which is like what we actually have to
support now and then in some languages
or even like you know in literally in
that library
in file coin they're just treating them
as bites right
i don't know what do you think how does
that fit with like your picture of this
eric
roughly congruently but i think the
fewer things that you try to promise the
more useless our specs become
like i want somebody to look at our
specs for this and know what they
should do when they write a new library
in a new language
well yeah yeah so yeah yeah yeah yeah so
so
the deg seabor spec should be very
specific about how you encode this
what i'm saying is that the data model
needs to set some constraints
for the codec expect to say what to do
right and then
when you go to implement that spec in
your language you're going to make
particular decisions about that
like like here's a very good example
that comes like to the string value
thing right if you look at the problem
we have here
it's really that languages do not agree
about strings
and like we can't fix that like like
we're not going to fix that
um and so the choice becomes like
do we do we try to get really
heavy-handed and force people to use
types that aren't string types to
represent strings so that they can
support
things that other people can do in other
languages or do we basically say
look if you do things that aren't utf-8
you're going to have a really bad time
you're going to see exceptions in some
languages
because they're going to try to convert
this and in fact like no matter what we
say in the data model
that is going to be the case we actually
have no ability
whatsoever to solve this because like
even if
all of our codecs that we ship have this
ffi type like basically a binary uh
value for strings the first thing
everybody does with them is convert them
to a string
and if it has invalid utf-8 characters
in it it's going to throw an exception
so all we've done is move the error from
the codec to like the thing that people
would do with the data right when they
first get it
it's not actually solving anybody's
problem it's just like making us feel
like we made it consistent but
so what you're saying is yeah strings
should caps lock yes yes
yeah yeah no no i was like almost
jumping up and down when you said like
caps lock should
like that that is that is 100 the right
thing to have in spec
where i think that we like can't really
we really don't have the ability to
dictate
is the the must support section um
and and a good example of this right is
um
json is not a binary must then i think
we're going to have to define
levels of compatibility or something and
have at least
a plus grade and a like b grade
compatibility
because it is already the case that a
bunch of stuff relies on these
string domains including arbitrary bytes
and so
the libraries that don't support that
are going to have b
grade compatibility at best because
they're going to fail to work with major
products that already exist on these
specifications
yeah but like often like it's just like
it's not it's not true in case of fico
like five coin is not using binary keys
in normal maps
it's just like in sibo like they are not
using
binary because they don't use they don't
use c-bar
binary like in c-ball maps there are no
binary
arbitrary dietary data just to i just
want to emphasize this
yeah but they are yes
eight bytes i just checked yesterday and
he said yes there are strings with onto
utf-8 bytes
like if if you decode them in
restaurants okay i
i then they can share it with me like
because i i i
i try to like i basically wrote a it
with will and try to find those so
please yeah please
share it with me okay cool i mean it may
be kind of hard to find one that happens
to be invalid utf-8
like there may be well i think what it
was is what we found
is that it all is seabor encoded at a
look at the
most basic level as expected and so the
problem is hands which
they're stored in cbor as values not as
map keys
they become map keys of the of the
realized
so it's those bytes that are in the
value segments of the
of the actual encoded seaboard that are
where there's binary data that's not
going to be
yeah but but now you're in in adl land
and
things change a bit like they're not
going to be enforced by codec in the
same way
um like but
to come back to it like sort of
try to unwind this again you often pair
a should with a mei
not a shirt with a must so i think that
like the the thing that we that the spec
should probably say
is you should encode strings in utf-8
you may encode arbitrary data
into those strings but you should know
that
that is going to cause you some problems
in languages that do not support that
like that is the consequence of doing
that um
saying that like you you must support it
means that
it it would force a compromise in some
languages that i don't think that we're
willing to do which
is to say that um all of the strings now
use non-native types
um or or yeah i mean
even the ffi type in rust is like
effectively a non-name of type
um or you're using like some kind of
like tagged binary type or something
like you're gonna end up doing something
special to them that's not a regular
string
in order and like that's just not gonna
make the codec very usable
and at the end of the day we don't
really control this
like it is not that hard for somebody to
just then write a codec
that decodes them all the strings and
just throws when they're not
and just use that instead and in fact
like often people will just do this
right like
and and it's it's the flip side as well
we can't say must be utf-8
because we know that people aren't going
to do that validation
and that they're going to encode stuff
into strings sometimes that aren't valid
utf-8 characters
and like you should be aware that that's
a thing that people do
and if you really need it to be utf-8
you're going to have to validate
it like there's no getting around it
right
so i think like that's that's probably
where the language needs to be and then
when we look at specific codecs in
specific languages we can get much
stricter about this
right like we can say specifically in
seabor like these must be strings like
they might have arbitrary data in them
but they need to be typed
strings for the math key values right
like we can we can get like
we can even say in some codex like
you know what you actually can only do
utf-8 for strings in this codec
um and here's like how you do that
cleanup or that translation for this
codec
for whatever reason and in fact like
this sort of happens already in json
because json is not a binary format it's
a string format so like the end the
final outputted
entire thing has to be a value to your a
string and so if you try to just shove
certain arbitrary bytes into the string
values it'll like actually mess up the
encode so you like have to do rear
escaping sometimes
um so yeah like this is just something
that like we
there are some of these decisions that
we have to leave to specific codecs and
languages and
yeah and just warn people like like you
probably don't want to do this
i mean the same thing like we we have to
warn people about inline cities too and
just say like you know what like this is
a thing that's possible but like you're
gonna have a bad time sometimes because
there aren't always agreements about
what the representation should be
um yeah
yeah i mean i agree that the spec should
be maximally useful but also
like the actual implementations need to
be maximally useful
and here we're like hitting like like
something of a of a conflict a little
bit
but i think i think the language that
you came up with with works
if we just replace that the the must
with mma for the uh
the support arbitrary stuff
okay and it just like it just we think i
think we should go to the agenda item
first and then like
like we could probably discuss this one
like
for another three hours as we did on
friday uh so
it's okay if we go on with the edge and
item first and then okay
cool um um
it's just for the for the trigger that i
also like i would want to discuss this
but i
also try to keep still yeah
uh okay so it's uh so yeah so
it's the gender item is the same topic
the kind of yes but like what's the
yeah what's the actual yeah
but i headed over to i headed over to
a brought for this one because you guys
look this is the same topic but it's the
so the the um chain safe
is that him the people that are doing
the russell implementation of final coin
open this issue and um having trouble
with the
abuse of map keys
um and they're it looks like they're
using the
the standard survey implementation and
it's just balking on
on the arbitrary bytes it converted to
strings that
they're doing in go and um
uh peter pointed out that this is
because
the the serializing the label which
contains arbitrary
things um so it's like like the user can
even
control what goes in this but i think um
so it's
the yolo kind of deal it's actually on
it's actually only the user
controls literally right so it's um
it's i don't know like i was talking to
alex yesterday about
um a whole bunch of stuff to do with
spec actors and um
and how they're they are doing
regular they're planning to do regular
upgrades and he showed me some of the
migration stuff which
has been a bit of a black box for me and
um
so there is scope for us to propose some
changes in some of these
uh things and uh it's not that we can
rewrite history because the history is
sort of stuck but you
we can have points in time where the
history gets rewritten for
a point onwards and they're they're
they're going to be doing that regularly
anyway
um so there's a couple of things here
one is
we we have scoped to speak to this space
to file coin and say here's a better way
to do it like maybe we say you know you
should be using
utf-8 cleaning you know that's just a
hypothetical you know but
maybe there's a way you should be doing
this it is that is going to be more
stable across implementations because
this is kind of rough
like yeah for all the reasons we've
talked about
just saying just saying like it's what
what the file coin implementation has
done in multiple places is said
well the ipld people said we can't have
anything but string keys
so we'll just put everything in bytes
and stringify them and uh you know with
the rust i'm sorry with the go
um string of brights implementation
okay it's just not very friendly to
others
um so we could suggest changes here
um but the other thing is i i think the
and
that's actually what the um rust
implementation people are suggesting
that like this changed um but i
also because we were called into this do
we have any feedback
on this do we do we have to say because
i think the rust people are gonna have
to live with it anyway because they're
gonna this is already on chain so
you're gonna have to deal with this
portion of history anyway
but is there anything that we can
suggest that makes this better for them
like volker are you going to be able to
offer anything better
in terms of at some point in the future
in terms of codecs that can
handle this or yeah is this is this
uh label i i think like someone proposed
that we just like that it could it be
changed from
string to bytes so if that's
an option so so what do you mean by that
though because we can't change the
encoded value but you can change the
representation
so if you just want to make it so that
the rust maps for dag cboard use bike
keys
and then they they serialize as
basically bytes that are taken
is is the label also about keys or is it
like no label is about a value right now
yes it's available yes so basically
oh wait straightforward so it's not
about keys so it's really about a value
so yeah so yeah so there's two things
right there's
hamps and the adls which
in which are cbor encoded correctly in
that
they they're they're a weird map thing
that has couple values and the values
are bytes and then you're supposed to
interpret them as a map that has
these bytes as the keys that are maybe
going through a string conversion but
the c4 representation's all good then
we've got
in markets they've got a label field
that's
user specified arbitrary stuff
and they're pushing seabor biting coding
into that
string field and so that's the invalid
place i guess is that right
what is that used for why is the label
there
i think this is that field that was
jason originally wasn't it
though yeah that's that there's a thing
that started the simple
then became jason became but that's not
the point the point
is that there are places
within the blockchain right now that
take
arbitrary user input because the label
is just conventional
what's in it right now you can literally
write anything in it
yeah and the one and there are two
places one is to place the template one
is transactions
in uh sorry uh sent transactions and
sent transactions
it is bytes so you can literally write
whatever you want into a round trip
the label which you also can write
whatever you want is unfortunately a
string
and that's where the entire friction
comes from why did they do that
this actually seems pretty clear-cut
this seems like that should be
a bite let's change it to change the
bites
yes but it sounds like they're trying
yeah this maybe this is out of scope for
us because it's not ipl it's not daxy
but it's just simple
i'm actually not sure i i think it's tax
i'm not sure myself
i think the problem is like if you would
change it to
bytes now and you use the the auto
embedded
code gen or serializes that like the the
default one that they
currently have in the russell
computation the problem is that
currently
it sounds like that in the xc ball this
thing has the tag string
but arbitrary bytes and if you change it
to
two bytes in a higher level this becomes
bytes and arbitrary bytes but of course
i guess it's a blockchain you need to
still
deal with the old ones where it stills
there's strings and divides
yeah yeah so so the real problem here is
literally they're stepping on the spec
change that we literally were just
talking about which is like they encoded
thing into a string that is not utf-8
and now they're in a language
that it needs to value tfa and so
they're getting an x
like that's the literal problem okay so
okay so what they need to figure out is
how they are going to
figure out exactly when they're encoding
these particular blocks
and how they're going to somehow tell
the decoder to encode that as a byte
value instead
that's what they currently do this is
what they currently use so they
basically
forked so in rust they forked certainly
to do this stuff
so they basically so they they can't use
the default
rust yeah seriously anymore because yeah
because
yeah yeah i mean that's what happens
when you encode invalid string data into
strings like you break certain languages
like that's
this is like the expected behavior i
don't know why they think that like this
is something that somebody else
breaks certain live pictures i would say
like certain could also
have chosen to use ffi strings here and
i think that they're okay
well but the that's unreasonable like i
mean like they have a string type
they're going to use it for strings like
that's that's like what everybody does
like
that's pretty much it it might be like a
certain problem
in that there there should be an easier
way for you to say
hey don't encode this is that in certain
like that may be a problem
i think it was just basically the
quick fix i guess just to make it work
because
that's the whole point but i think yeah
but still like it's there so
it's actually there i think that's the
problem back there that strings are
yeah if it would be all valid you defeat
everything but we would be fine so i
mean
like they they should just use bytes i
mean i don't know why you didn't
originally um
like that would be a much better idea
given that there is data on chain
they're just going to have to have like
a codec that knows to deal with this
although i mean maybe our feedback is
simply
you should just change respect to say
this is bytes and then they're not
like even historical data works it just
means that they have to interp like the
go people will say well this can be a
string in some place like
i don't maybe there's a reason maybe
this is maybe something we actually punt
over to hannah
because this is really yeah actually
actually all the historical data so far
is either binary sea war and already
encoded cyborg
or ascii so it won't break anything
yeah maybe that's our favorite thing
like this is mistakenly labeled as a
string just because it's so easy and
go to do string and bytes conversions
and but it should just be bytes
okay and that maybe that's something
hold on hold on but like i i do want to
just say that like
eric you you are probably going to
end up needing a feature then where
somebody can apply a schema that says
this is bytes and i don't care if it
says that it's a string in the data
model you encode and decode it as bytes
so that they get a consistent value even
after they do this
well yeah yeah i mean that literally is
a migration right
like yeah
i know that you have like a whole kind
of plan about how migrations work but
like
in a migration you you reinterpret old
data in the new format right you don't
have to like rewrite the data
because we have no ability to rewrite
the data it's a blockchain
like yeah yeah sure so if you write two
schemas like you
just match whichever one matches and
they're like ah okay that's what it is
but you can't do that like again the
thing with the matching like
i i linked something like five minutes
ago this is how upgrades work
we had this large discussion like back
in july like uh
how the signing will work the signaling
is chain height
literally like you have exact heights
okay well that's to switch your schemas
and stuff like that
so my point is that you will that you
want to supply the schemas
as as it goes through the chain this
change you could actually just look at
the data and say like
which which typing tag doesn't have and
if it has the string tag then you know
which which
schema that you're talking about um yeah
yeah like like we don't have to look at
it oh oh
oh oh i mean we need the c for the tag
okay yeah
yeah yeah we're just ready to describe
the migration and i appeal these schemas
with nothing
quite specific and we are confident
about i'm sure filecoin also has some
migration mechanism and i know
nothing about it but i'm going to assume
that it is fine and i do not care that
is an acceptable amount of knowledge for
me to have
we seem that we all agree in this
scenario this particular issue one two
four eight
that there is this field that is
currently specified as if it is a string
and it contains non-utf faith bytes and
we think that that is silly and it
should just be a bytes
field because that is clearly
behaviorally what it is fine
solid super easy we are additionally the
only thing here that should be running
on
is we might as a team look at this as a
potential learning experience for what
happens when rather than if
people do put non-utf-8 bytes in serial
strings and then
other people have to deal with the
result right that's the one thing that's
interesting
one of the library that's built on top
of the thing that you eric are writing
will need to be able to read this part
of the chain where the c board is
mistyped
how do you do that
yeah that's what the scheme of migration
stuff is you actually you end up with
two schemas for
both versions we have serialized data
that exists and in cbor it is tagged as
saying i am a string and it contains
these non-utf-8 bytes
what are you going to do as an
implementer what are you going to do
at the end of the day
and so that's the question that's the
question
this is why i advocate for your library
should freaking deal with it
and know what bites are and like just
don't move around with it because that's
the only definition i can see
on a day like this with a problem like
this that causes my implementation to
work
i mean what you probably want to do in a
language like
rust where this is a problem is
attempts to deserialize the string and
if it fails because of invalid
characters
then you basically check if you're in
like a strict mode or not and if you're
not in a strict mode if you're in a like
just converted mode
then you just change it to a byte value
that's gonna like suck but it's like the
only way to get past this without
having like super explicit code that
says like this property always decoded
as a byte value
which is what they're doing i think
while in the rest this will work and go
it will actually
throw some of the invited data away
silently gold just like yeah
go we'll just accept invalid data in the
stream
but wanted to replace it with uh with uh
this uh unicode thing okay it will
it will keep it correct okay that's the
only place that's what you guys said
last time
okay awesome yeah no the goat has a
couple it has some library features that
have that
kind of i'm not a big fan of it behavior
about the unicode
uh error byte but it shows up in like
json libraries and some uh some string
pretty printers and stuff but it's it's
in
relatively high level libraries that we
can just choose not to use and it's fine
um so what's the action item
there rod will you reply on the
on the issue perhaps sorry
i'll go back and i'll just say look this
is
this is one of those unfortunate things
of um language imaginations and the rust
people are just gonna have to deal with
the historical data at least
but our suggestion is that this field
just should be changed
to bytes for for in a future upgrade
so that it's encoded as a byte string
and then
it's easy for everyone because let's
just admit this thing is arbitrary
literally arbitrary it says it in the
spec
so make it arbitrary um and stop
dealing with strings and that's and
that's the best we can do but
unfortunately
i mean and i'm sorry i'm sure the russ
people already know they're going to
have to deal with this data anyway so
it's like
we've got to deal with the historical
craft so
yeah but let's make it better in the
future and then maybe i'll
pull hannah into that because i don't
know if hannah wants more things to deal
with but that's
kind of been hannah's basket
okay thanks i think that's the so we
have
done this at gen item
yeah next judge my name is chris
chris uh yeah just a quick question did
we
ever like what's what's the current
thinking about having like a b tree adl
that means what was that a b
i don't think anyone needs the
permission of anyone in this call to
to be whitelisted to make a new adl
they're
the the dream is that this should be
like a plug-in point in general so like
you want to do it do it i i actually
today
got approval to contract somebody to do
this so uh
we're talking ron and i are talking to
somebody right now
but like that that wasn't even ready to
really talk about um yeah
we're okay like it'll probably be a red
black tree
well yeah something that allows you to
do uh
like non-exact look-ups um here we have
hampty's
hemp for uh exact exact match lookups
but if you want to
range or something like that then you
need to be treated so
yeah so i was just wondering i mean
since we didn't have one i didn't see
anything in the specs i'm like i'm
wondering if we talked about
like no that we're never going to do
that for some reason but it just sounds
like no one's had
so that's good news yeah it's even
better somebody actually built it
yeah no uh i mean rod did a lot of
exploration
when he first started around this and
and we have a bunch of sort of different
sort of collections that we want to look
at
um the reason why they haven't been done
so far is that so much of the work has
been
going into filecoin and these data
structures are not going to be
hash consistent um right like
you're unless you can guarantee that
you're always going to do a rebalance
then they're not going to have the same
hash as somebody else with the same data
because insertion order really is going
to change the structure
and so they're not useful for blockchain
they're not useful for like
some different content addressing use
cases but
they're really important for databases
and other stuff like that
like i really want it for dagdb because
for secondary indexing i don't need a
consistent
hash but because you don't actually
share that between parties like i only
need that for the primary store
so it's fine um but yeah like we're
we're finally now getting around to that
yeah and then
once once we have some good patterns
there and some good stuff then like
i want fulcrum right in archery walker
needs to write an archery
okay so what's an archery geospatial
indexing
i would also mention um somebody else
who's not in the call right now but
might be good to
talk with is ian from the piergos
project
i know at some point they've used other
i think closer to b plus tree structures
like this and then they moved over to
hampton champs
but you might have some interesting
observations about that i think they
were driven a lot by the um
the content addressing convergence story
but they
they did ship with a bunch of other tree
structures for a while so there might be
learning experiences there yeah yeah
definitely
it's great um he lurks in i think he
works in our irc pretty reliably too if
email can't be found i don't know
whatever i do have a hunch that there is
a form
there's at least one form that we could
implement that does have
something approaching canonical
structure
it's just going to be a very novel
implementation of some kind of b
or red black or some other balancing
data structure that
converges so and i think with with these
data structures there's going to be
there's going to have to be multiple
image implementations each with
different trade-offs
and that's the right way to go because
different users
need different trade-offs so some users
won't care about trade i won't care
about convergence
they just want efficiency some users
won't care about block size and so
like a you know a a binary tree might be
fine
but in some some users will care about
block size so and then mutations come
into the question so
it i think it's right that there should
be multiple invitations of this so if
you have ideas you definitely should be
experimenting with them because it'd be
really interesting to see what shakes
out of that process and
and then figure out what the edges of
those trade-offs are
yeah i think that we sometimes
mistakenly think that like ipld is at
the level of the database
for like the analogous kind of
centralized model um but it's actually
like the level of like the
disk right and so it's not like we're
gonna have a database or a way to do
this it's like
there are many many databases because
they all have very different performance
profiles and
that the way that they implement those
two performance differences is primarily
how they write those things to disk and
how they do transactional architectures
between each other
and so like we're going to end up with
many many different trees that
functionally do the same thing but have
wildly different performance
characteristics
maybe we're not quite the discs but
we're like the concept of rose
structuring
[Laughter]
yeah i mean like the where you implement
the linking
in a database is that you literally
write like where the other location on
disk is right
um and we're like basically at that
linking layer like where we're how where
you define
how those things link together so it is
somewhat analogous
i also think it would be cool to maybe
research something like
a patricia tree structure because it
seems to me like you could
make some hybrid of patricia b plus tree
and you could probably get somewhere
that was both sorted
and reasonably efficient and reasonably
convergence friendly
what's interesting is like i i think
that we're a little bit here
underestimating how much work we can do
above the primitive adl error
uh because like if you look at like like
daggery for instance
you you already you so you have to hash
of the database between different states
and then you can always do a diff of the
primary store between those states
so that means that as long as you're
pairing each of those next to an index
then for any state you can always only
apply the diff
over them and so you actually get like
really interesting and better
kind of batch performance
characteristics i would have just
combined like putting a hamp
next to a red black tree just the roots
like already you have like really nice
kind of performance characteristics
between them and you're and you're
getting over
a lot of the problems you would have so
and i wonder like how far you can
stretch that right like how
how hybrid can we get with like where we
shove some of these different data
structures together to get different
characteristics
it's a cool problem space like i'm
i want to like stop managing maybe and
just like play around with this but
it should be my jam if i just got the
red coat and we have
five more minutes to go and any
other stuff people might want to talk
about
so i just uh put a link in i i've been
working with a cddl quite a bit and so
you might want to take a look at that
for writing the
the entire spec and i've been doing some
branching logic for my work and it did
work
so um testing the validity
ncdl and branching if it if the
based on the type
it was just uh this uh rest library was
just updated yesterday i think it
does support now both validating seabor
as well as
json
poor
anything else
nope then yeah then i
close the meeting and see everyone and
next week again
goodbye hi everyone
hang on sorry um there was this ham
thing where we going to talk about the
hampt
oh stu
uh okay so the problem we have right now
is the changes we merged last week
[Music]
have a conflict in the kind of union so
i went with a uh
a tuple representation for
the nodes i think i've been infected by
the
far coin need to make everything compact
and small
and um there's the link yes um
and so but then when you go to this
recursive point where
you're you could have buckets
uh or links to child nodes
it's a kind of union and the bucket
itself is a list and the hashmap node
that has
we've listed as a map so that's wrong um
it seems to me the easiest answer is to
remove the representation tuple there
and then just have them as as maps
um and the objection to that is simply
that you're wasting space by having the
map keys in the in your
encoding um
maybe we shorten them or maybe we don't
worry about that
that's i think that's the main
path forward here the obvious path
forward is to just turn it back into a
map
anyone have any thoughts
the two the two there's two fields in
the map one is map and one is data
there's a map is a binder as bytes and
the data is an
array um so
no yeah okay
pulling it back into a map sounds right
i would call them
bit field rename b and data rename
d personally i also think the name map
for that field was really
it didn't it confused me it's a big
field right
um i would say it's a bit map
well okay fine it still shortens to b
it's a mapping um
okay do we so do we is it do you think
we should use the rename in there or
should we just
make the names short
have a user rename for that that's what
they're for
okay so maybe
okay okay bitmap a bit field and rename
it to b and the
data what we saying that i'll just read
rename data to d
yeah i don't know i'll do that now
that's it then all right
again is there anything else we still
have one minute
no it doesn't seem like it
um then goodbye everyone and see you all
next week
bye